Add v2 migration documentation to the sidebar (#2015)
kyma-project/api-gateway: docs/user/apirule-migration/01-84-migrate-oauth2-v1beta1-to-v2.md

# Migrate APIRule `v1beta1` of type oauth2_introspection to version `v2`

> Learn how to migrate an APIRule created in version `v1beta1` using the **oauth2_introspection** handler to the **extAuth** handler in version `v2`. In APIRule `v2`, the **extAuth** handler replaces all Ory Oathkeeper-based handlers used in the `v1beta1` version. The tutorial focuses on **oauth2_introspection** as it is the most popular Ory Oathkeeper-based handler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn how to migrate an APIRule created in version `v1beta1` using the **oauth2_introspection** handler to the **extAuth** handler in version `v2`. In APIRule `v2`, the **extAuth** handler replaces all Ory Oathkeeper-based handlers used in the `v1beta1` version. The instructions focus on **oauth2_introspection** because it is the most popular Ory Oathkeeper-based handler.
```
I tend to avoid the word "tutorial" because in SAP/Kyma context, that can mean several different things :D

Author: true :D

## Context

> APIRule in version `v1beta1` is deprecated and scheduled for removal. Once the APIRule custom resource definition (CRD) stops serving version `v1beta1`, the API server will no longer respond to requests for APIRules in this version. As a result, you will encounter errors when attempting to access the APIRule custom resource using the deprecated `v1beta1` version. Therefore, migrating to version `v2` is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
APIRule in version `v1beta1` is deprecated and scheduled for removal. Once the APIRule custom resource definition (CRD) stops serving version `v1beta1`, the API server will no longer respond to requests for APIRules in this version. As a result, you will encounter errors when attempting to access the APIRule custom resource using the deprecated `v1beta1` version. Therefore, you must migrate to version `v2`.
```

## Prerequisites

> * You have the Istio and API Gateway modules added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have read [Changes Introduced in APIRule `v2`](../custom-resources/apirule/04-70-changes-in-apirule-v2.md).
* You have the Istio and API Gateway modules added.
```

* You have a deployed workload exposed by an APIRule in the deprecated `v1beta1` version. The APIRule uses the **oauth2_introspection** handler.
  > [!NOTE] 
  > The workload exposed by the APIRule in version `v2` must be a part of the Istio service mesh. See [Enable Istio Sidecar Proxy Injection](https://kyma-project.io/#/istio/user/tutorials/01-40-enable-sidecar-injection?id=enable-istio-sidecar-proxy-injection).
* You have installed [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl).
* To use the CLI instructions, you must have [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl) and [curl](https://curl.se/) installed. 

## Steps

In this example, the APIRule `v1beta1` was created with the **oauth2_introspection** handler, so the migration targets an APIRule `v2` using the **extAuth** handler. To illustrate the migration, the HTTPBin service is used, exposing the `/anything` and `/.*` endpoints. The HTTPBin service is deployed in its own namespace, with Istio enabled, ensuring the workload is part of the Istio service mesh.

> 1. Obtain a configuration of the APIRule in version `v1beta1` and save it for further modifications. For instructions, see [Retrieve the Complete **spec** of an APIRule in Version `v1beta1`](./01-81-retrieve-v1beta1-spec.md). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Retrieve a configuration of the APIRule in version `v1beta1` and save it for further modifications. For instructions, see [Retrieve the Complete **spec** of an APIRule in Version `v1beta1`](./01-81-retrieve-v1beta1-spec.md). 
```

>    See a sample of the retrieved **spec** in the YAML format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   See a sample of the retrieved **spec** in the YAML format. 
   The following configuration uses the **oauth2_introspection** handler to expose HTTPBin service's `/anything` and `/.*` endpoints:
```

    ```yaml
    host: httpbin.local.kyma.dev
    service:
      name: httpbin
      namespace: test
      port: 8000
    gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
    rules:
      - path: /anything
        methods:
          - POST
        accessStrategies:
          - handler: oauth2_introspection
            config:
              introspection_request_headers:
                Authorization: Basic {ENCODED_CREDENTIALS}
              introspection_url: https://{IAS_TENANT}.accounts.ondemand.com/oauth2/introspect
              required_scope:
                - write
      - path: /.*
        methods:
          - GET
        accessStrategies:
          - handler: oauth2_introspection
            config:
              introspection_request_headers:
                Authorization: Basic {ENCODED_CREDENTIALS}
              introspection_url: https://{IAS_TENANT}.accounts.ondemand.com/oauth2/introspect
              required_scope:
                - read
    ```

>     The above configuration uses the **oauth2_introspection** handler to expose HTTPBin service's `/anything` and `/.*` endpoints.

Reviewer: added in line 24f instead

```suggestion
```

> 2. In order for the `extAuth` handler in APIRule `v2` to work, you must first deploy a service that will act as an external authorizer for Istio. This tutorial uses [oauth2-proxy](https://oauth2-proxy.github.io/oauth2-proxy/) with an OAuth2.0 compliant authorization server supporting OIDC discovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In order for the `extAuth` handler in APIRule `v2` to work, you must first deploy a service that acts as an external authorizer for Istio. The following instructions use [oauth2-proxy](https://oauth2-proxy.github.io/oauth2-proxy/) with an OAuth2.0-compliant authorization server supporting OIDC discovery.
```

        oidc-issuer-url: {OIDC_ISSUER_URL}
        pass-access-token: true
        pass-authorization-header: true
        pass-host-header: true
        pass-user-headers: true
        provider: oidc
        request-logging: true
        reverse-proxy: true
        scope: "{TOKEN_SCOPES}"
        set-authorization-header: true
        set-xauthrequest: true
        skip-jwt-bearer-tokens: true
        skip-oidc-discovery: false
        skip-provider-button: true
        standard-logging: true
        upstream: static://200
        whitelist-domain: "*.{DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS}:*"
      EOF
      ```
      The example above shows the configuration of oauth2-proxy with the following parameters: 
      - `CLIENT_SECRET`, `CLIENT_ID`, and `OIDC_ISSUER_URL`, which you can obtain by following the documentation in [Obtain a JWT](../tutorials/01-50-expose-and-secure-a-workload/01-51-get-jwt.md)
      - `DOMAIN_TO_EXPOSE_WORKLOADS` refers to either a custom domain or, as in this example, the default domain `local.kyma.dev`
      - `COOKIE_SECRET` that you can generate using the following command:
        ```bash
        openssl rand -base64 32 | tr -- '+/' '-_'
        ```

>       - `TOKEN_SCOPES` specifies the OAuth scopes. Each provider has a default set of scopes that are used if no custom scopes are configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `TOKEN_SCOPES` specifies the OAuth scopes. Each provider has a default set of scopes that are used if you haven't configured custom scopes.
```
I assume it's the reader/user who configures custom scopes?

      
        For a complete list of options and further details, refer to the [oauth2-proxy documentation](https://oauth2-proxy.github.io/oauth2-proxy/configuration/overview/#config-options).

   2. To install `oauth2-proxy` with your configuration, use [oauth2-proxy helm chart](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/manifests):

      ```bash
      kubectl create namespace oauth2-proxy
      helm repo add oauth2-proxy https://oauth2-proxy.github.io/manifests
      helm upgrade --install oauth2-proxy oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy -f values.yaml -n oauth2-proxy
      ```

   3. Register `oauth2-proxy` as an authorization provider in the Istio module:

      ```bash
      kubectl patch istio -n kyma-system default --type merge --patch '{"spec":{"config":{"authorizers":[{"name":"oauth2-proxy","port":80,"service":"oauth2-proxy.oauth2-proxy.svc.cluster.local","headers":{"inCheck":{"include":["x-forwarded-for", "cookie", "authorization"]}}}]}}}'
      ```

> 3. Adjust the obtained configuration of the APIRule to use the **extAuth** handler in version `v2`. See the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Adjust the obtained configuration of the APIRule to use the **extAuth** handler in version `v2`. 
The following APIRule example delegates token validation to the previously configured oauth2-proxy. Existing tokens stay valid throughout the migration, ensuring that the process does not disrupt any exposed or secured workloads.
```

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v2
    kind: APIRule
    metadata:
      name: httpbin
      namespace: test
    spec:
      hosts:
        - httpbin
      service:
        name: httpbin
        namespace: test
        port: 8000
      gateway: kyma-system/kyma-gateway
      rules:
        - extAuth:
            authorizers:
              - oauth2-proxy
          methods:
            - POST
          path: /anything
        - extAuth:
            authorizers:
              - oauth2-proxy
          methods:
            - GET
          path: /{**}
    ```

>     The above APIRule example delegates token validation to the previously configured oauth2-proxy. Existing tokens will remain valid throughout the migration, ensuring that the process does not disrupt any exposed or secured workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    > [!NOTE] 
    > Note that the **hosts** field accepts a short host name (without a domain). Additionally, the path `/.*` has been changed to `/{**}` because APIRule `v2` does not support regular expressions in the **spec.rules.path** field. 
    >

>     > For more information, see the [Changes Introduced in APIRule `v2`](../custom-resources/apirule/04-70-changes-in-apirule-v2.md) document. **Read this document before applying the new APIRule `v2`.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > For more information, see [Changes Introduced in APIRule `v2`](../custom-resources/apirule/04-70-changes-in-apirule-v2.md).
```
Added as prerequisite in line 11, what do you think?
